

# About the script 
Synology .DSS file exporter is a simple command line tool to extract info about stored configuration in file generated by Synology device ended with extension .dss.
DSS file is not simply and fast readable by humans. Purpose of this script is to help generate documentation fast, easy and readable by humans. Not everytime want to use the automatic recovery configuration procedure. Comparation of manualy re-created configuration comparable to previous settings is more expected by users. Unfortunately any Synology application delivered by the venor not allow to simply todo this task. Sometimes users want to take a look what is simply inside the file before gave it to someone. 

# Inspiration for this script 
Inspiration for this scrtipt was the [page](https://gist.github.com/willfurnass/7db2a26a7a147cc8b86676651e1ab8c1) found in Internet with short unpack methodology from Linux. 

# TLTR - all technical details 
Is obvious that behind this script and especially .DSS file is hidden huge portion of the knowledge, so placing it exactly in this README.md file is not good idea. 
Below find you all information written during creating this tool and analyse the .DSS contents. 
- How to generate .DSS file using Synology device 
- .DSS archive file structure 
- .DSS unpacked repository and theirs elements 
- _Syno_ConfBkp.db SQLite database 

# How to run the script 
This basic version of the script is written in Windows Powershell, when this script will be fully functional, other languages or platforms might will be created in the future. 
Please download this code, save it in the same folder where .DSS file or files are placed. 
Then run the script adding only as parameter the full filename with configuration downloaded from synology device NAS. 


# Script Output 


# ToDo 
- full readable dump into HTML file 
- interoperable script usable on different OS platforms. 
- security - expose which sesitive informations .DSS file holds when we make this file public. 

# if you really want to help develop this tool 
Don't hesitate and please contact withe me. I'm open for the collaboration by this project. 

